docs/node/stake-pool-operations/register_stakepool.md, before:

## Registering a Stake Pool with Metadata

First, make sure you have access to:

| File | Content |
| :--- | :--- |
| `payment.vkey` | payment verification key |
| `payment.skey` | payment signing key |
| `stake.vkey` | staking verification key |
| `stake.skey` | staking signing key |
| `stake.addr` | registered stake address |
| `payment.addr` | funded address linked to `stake` |
| `cold.vkey` | cold verification key |
| `cold.skey` | cold signing key |
| `cold.counter` | issue counter |
| `node.cert` | operational certificate |
| `kes.vkey` | KES verification key |
| `kes.skey` | KES signing key |
| `vrf.vkey` | VRF verification key |
| `vrf.skey` | VRF signing key |

To register your stake pool you will need to:

* Create a JSON file with your metadata and store it in the node and in the url you maintain
* Get the hash of your JSON file
* Generate the stake pool registration certificate
* Create a delegation certificate pledge
* Submit the certificates to the blockchain

**WARNING:** Generating the **stake pool registration certificate** and the **delegation certificate** requires using **cold keys**. When doing this on mainnet, you may want to generate these certificates in your local machine taking the proper security measures to avoid exposing your cold keys to the internet.

### Create a JSON file with your pool's metadata:

      {
      "name": "TestPool",
      "description": "The pool that tests all the pools",
      "ticker": "TEST",
      "homepage": "https://teststakepool.com"
      }

Store the file in the url you control. For example [https://teststakepool.com/poolMetadata.json](https://git.io/JJWdJ). You can use a GIST in Github to store the definition and git.io to make it short. Ensure that the URL is less than 65 characters long.

Example:

Gist-URL https://gist.githubusercontent.com/carloslodelar/38c7482070627092a427583cae8fa470/raw/7fddda4d258bf685d24ea3510fbde295b3920188/clrpool.json

Git.IO-URL https://git.io/JJWdJ

### Get the hash of your metadata JSON file

This validates that JSON fits the required schema, if it does, you will get the hash of your file:

    cardano-cli stake-pool metadata-hash --pool-metadata-file pool_Metadata.json

    >6bf124f217d0e5a0a8adb1dbd8540e1334280d49ab861127868339f43b3948af

### Register your relay nodes on-chain

The operator should register their relay nodes on-chain (including them into the pool’s registration certificate) to ensure that other peers on the network have an ability to connect to them. Registered relay nodes are continuously updated and added to a JSON dataset. IOG offers this [list of all registered relays categorized by geographical location](https://explorer.cardano-mainnet.iohk.io/relays/topology.json) for SPOs to consider for connection purposes. It is recommended that SPOs generate a configuration that uses 20 other SPOs as peers. The list allows selecting peers that are both nearby and far away so that there is strong inter-region connectivity.

To register your relay nodes during the creation of the pool registration certificate, specify their IP addresses and/or domain name using: 

```
--pool-relay-ipv4 <IPADDRESS>
--single-host-pool-relay <DOMAIN_NAME>
```

After certificate submission, relay nodes will be added to the topology file enabling other SPOs to connect to them. Additionally, one of the IOG nodes will also establish a connection so that an operator has at least one downstream peer. 

**Related topics:**

-   [Establishing connectivity between nodes](https://docs.cardano.org/en/latest/getting-started/stake-pool-operators/establishing-connectivity-between-the-nodes.html)

### Generate Stake pool registration certificate

    cardano-cli stake-pool registration-certificate \
    --cold-verification-key-file cold.vkey \
    --vrf-verification-key-file vrf.vkey \
    --pool-pledge <AMOUNT TO PLEDGE IN LOVELACE> \
    --pool-cost <POOL COST PER EPOCH IN LOVELACE> \
    --pool-margin <POOL COST PER EPOCH IN PERCENTAGE> \
    --pool-reward-account-verification-key-file stake.vkey \
    --pool-owner-stake-verification-key-file stake.vkey \
    --mainnet \
    --pool-relay-ipv4 <RELAY NODE PUBLIC IP> \
    --pool-relay-port <RELAY NODE PORT> \
    --single-host-pool-relay STRING <The stake pool relay's DNS name that corresponds to an A or AAAA DNS record> \
    --metadata-url https://git.io/JJWdJ \
    --metadata-hash <POOL METADATA HASH> \
    --out-file pool-registration.cert


| Parameter | Explanation |
| :--- | :--- |
| cold-verification-key-file | verification _cold_ key |
| vrf-verification-key-file | verification _VRS_ key |
| pool-pledge | pledge lovelace |
| pool-cost | operational costs per epoch lovelace |
| pool-margin | operator margin |
| pool-reward-account-verification-key-file | verification staking key for the rewards |
| pool-owner-staking-verification-key-file | verification staking keys for the pool owners |
| pool-relay-ipv4 | relay node ip address |
| pool-relay-port | port |
| metadata-url | url of your json file |
| metadata-hash | the hash of pools json metadata file |
| out-file | output file to write the certificate to |

**You can use a different key for the rewards, and you can provide more than one owner key if there were multiple owners who share the pledge.**

The **pool-registration.cert** file should look like this:


    type: CertificateShelley
    description: Stake Pool Registration Certificate
    cborHex:
    18b58a03582062d632e7ee8a83769bc108e3e42a674d8cb242d7375fc2d97db9b4dd6eded6fd5820
    48aa7b2c8deb8f6d2318e3bf3df885e22d5d63788153e7f4040c33ecae15d3e61b0000005d21dba0
    001b000000012a05f200d81e820001820058203a4e813b6340dc790f772b3d433ce1c371d5c5f5de
    46f1a68bdf8113f50e779d8158203a4e813b6340dc790f772b3d433ce1c371d5c5f5de46f1a68bdf
    8113f50e779d80f6

### Generate delegation certificate pledge

To honor your pledge, create a _delegation certificate_:

    cardano-cli stake-address delegation-certificate \
    --stake-verification-key-file stake.vkey \
    --cold-verification-key-file cold.vkey \
    --out-file delegation.cert

This creates a delegation certificate which delegates funds from all stake addresses associated with key `stake.vkey` to the pool belonging to cold key `cold.vkey`. If there are many staking keys as pool owners in the first step, we need delegation certificates for all of them.

### Submit the pool certificate and delegation certificate to the blockchain

To submit the `pool registration certificate` and the `delegation certificates` to the blockchain, include them in one or more transactions. We can use one transaction for multiple certificates, the certificates will be applied in order.

### Draft the transaction

    cardano-cli transaction build-raw \
    --tx-in <TxHash>#<TxIx> \
    --tx-out $(cat payment.addr)+0 \
    --invalid-hereafter 0 \
    --fee 0 \
    --out-file tx.draft \
    --certificate-file pool-registration.cert \
    --certificate-file delegation.cert

### Calculate the fees

    cardano-cli transaction calculate-min-fee \
    --tx-body-file tx.draft \
    --tx-in-count 1 \
    --tx-out-count 1 \
    --witness-count 3 \
    --byron-witness-count 0 \
    --mainnet \
    --protocol-params-file protocol.json

For example:

    > 184685

Registering a stake pool requires a deposit. This amount is specified in `protocol.json`. For example, for Shelley Mainnet we have:

"poolDeposit": 500000000

### Calculate the change for --tx-out

All amounts in Lovelace

    expr <UTxO BALANCE> - <poolDeposit> - <TRANSACTION FEE>

### Build the transaction:

    cardano-cli transaction build-raw \
    --tx-in <TxHash>#<TxIx> \
    --tx-out $(cat payment.addr)+<CHANGE IN LOVELACE> \
    --invalid-hereafter <TTL> \
    --fee <TRANSACTION FEE> \
    --out-file tx.raw \
    --certificate-file pool-registration.cert \
    --certificate-file delegation.cert

### Sign the transaction:

    cardano-cli transaction sign \
    --tx-body-file tx.raw \
    --signing-key-file payment.skey \
    --signing-key-file stake.skey \
    --signing-key-file cold.skey \
    --mainnet \
    --out-file tx.signed

### Submit the transaction:

    cardano-cli transaction submit \
    --tx-file tx.signed \
    --mainnet


### Verify that your stake pool registration was successful

Get Pool ID

    cardano-cli stake-pool id --cold-verification-key-file cold.vkey --output-format "hex"

Check for the presence of your poolID in the network ledger state, with:

    cardano-cli query ledger-state --mainnet | grep publicKey | grep <poolId>

Commit message:

Clarify pool margin value in docs
Clarify that --pool-margin must be from 0 to 1, and avoid misleading word *percentage*.

docs/node/stake-pool-operations/register_stakepool.md, after:

## Registering a Stake Pool with Metadata

First, make sure you have access to:

| File | Content |
| :--- | :--- |
| `payment.vkey` | payment verification key |
| `payment.skey` | payment signing key |
| `stake.vkey` | staking verification key |
| `stake.skey` | staking signing key |
| `stake.addr` | registered stake address |
| `payment.addr` | funded address linked to `stake` |
| `cold.vkey` | cold verification key |
| `cold.skey` | cold signing key |
| `cold.counter` | issue counter |
| `node.cert` | operational certificate |
| `kes.vkey` | KES verification key |
| `kes.skey` | KES signing key |
| `vrf.vkey` | VRF verification key |
| `vrf.skey` | VRF signing key |

To register your stake pool you will need to:

* Create a JSON file with your metadata and store it in the node and in the url you maintain
* Get the hash of your JSON file
* Generate the stake pool registration certificate
* Create a delegation certificate pledge
* Submit the certificates to the blockchain

**WARNING:** Generating the **stake pool registration certificate** and the **delegation certificate** requires using **cold keys**. When doing this on mainnet, you may want to generate these certificates in your local machine taking the proper security measures to avoid exposing your cold keys to the internet.

### Create a JSON file with your pool's metadata:

      {
      "name": "TestPool",
      "description": "The pool that tests all the pools",
      "ticker": "TEST",
      "homepage": "https://teststakepool.com"
      }

Store the file in the url you control. For example [https://teststakepool.com/poolMetadata.json](https://git.io/JJWdJ). You can use a GIST in Github to store the definition and git.io to make it short. Ensure that the URL is less than 65 characters long.

Example:

Gist-URL https://gist.githubusercontent.com/carloslodelar/38c7482070627092a427583cae8fa470/raw/7fddda4d258bf685d24ea3510fbde295b3920188/clrpool.json

Git.IO-URL https://git.io/JJWdJ

### Get the hash of your metadata JSON file

This validates that JSON fits the required schema, if it does, you will get the hash of your file:

    cardano-cli stake-pool metadata-hash --pool-metadata-file pool_Metadata.json

    >6bf124f217d0e5a0a8adb1dbd8540e1334280d49ab861127868339f43b3948af

### Register your relay nodes on-chain

The operator should register their relay nodes on-chain (including them into the pool’s registration certificate) to ensure that other peers on the network have an ability to connect to them. Registered relay nodes are continuously updated and added to a JSON dataset. IOG offers this [list of all registered relays categorized by geographical location](https://explorer.cardano-mainnet.iohk.io/relays/topology.json) for SPOs to consider for connection purposes. It is recommended that SPOs generate a configuration that uses 20 other SPOs as peers. The list allows selecting peers that are both nearby and far away so that there is strong inter-region connectivity.

To register your relay nodes during the creation of the pool registration certificate, specify their IP addresses and/or domain name using: 

```
--pool-relay-ipv4 <IPADDRESS>
--single-host-pool-relay <DOMAIN_NAME>
```

After certificate submission, relay nodes will be added to the topology file enabling other SPOs to connect to them. Additionally, one of the IOG nodes will also establish a connection so that an operator has at least one downstream peer. 

**Related topics:**

-   [Establishing connectivity between nodes](https://docs.cardano.org/en/latest/getting-started/stake-pool-operators/establishing-connectivity-between-the-nodes.html)

### Generate Stake pool registration certificate

    cardano-cli stake-pool registration-certificate \
    --cold-verification-key-file cold.vkey \
    --vrf-verification-key-file vrf.vkey \
    --pool-pledge <AMOUNT TO PLEDGE IN LOVELACE> \
    --pool-cost <POOL COST PER EPOCH IN LOVELACE> \
    --pool-margin <POOL OPERATOR MARGIN > \
    --pool-reward-account-verification-key-file stake.vkey \
    --pool-owner-stake-verification-key-file stake.vkey \
    --mainnet \
    --pool-relay-ipv4 <RELAY NODE PUBLIC IP> \
    --pool-relay-port <RELAY NODE PORT> \
    --single-host-pool-relay STRING <The stake pool relay's DNS name that corresponds to an A or AAAA DNS record> \
    --metadata-url https://git.io/JJWdJ \
    --metadata-hash <POOL METADATA HASH> \
    --out-file pool-registration.cert


| Parameter | Explanation |
| :--- | :--- |
| cold-verification-key-file | verification _cold_ key |
| vrf-verification-key-file | verification _VRS_ key |
| pool-pledge | pledge lovelace |
| pool-cost | operational costs per epoch lovelace |
| pool-margin | share of total ada rewards that the operator takes, must be from 0 to 1 |
| pool-reward-account-verification-key-file | verification staking key for the rewards |
| pool-owner-staking-verification-key-file | verification staking keys for the pool owners |
| pool-relay-ipv4 | relay node ip address |
| pool-relay-port | port |
| metadata-url | url of your json file |
| metadata-hash | the hash of pools json metadata file |
| out-file | output file to write the certificate to |

**You can use a different key for the rewards, and you can provide more than one owner key if there were multiple owners who share the pledge.**

The **pool-registration.cert** file should look like this:


    type: CertificateShelley
    description: Stake Pool Registration Certificate
    cborHex:
    18b58a03582062d632e7ee8a83769bc108e3e42a674d8cb242d7375fc2d97db9b4dd6eded6fd5820
    48aa7b2c8deb8f6d2318e3bf3df885e22d5d63788153e7f4040c33ecae15d3e61b0000005d21dba0
    001b000000012a05f200d81e820001820058203a4e813b6340dc790f772b3d433ce1c371d5c5f5de
    46f1a68bdf8113f50e779d8158203a4e813b6340dc790f772b3d433ce1c371d5c5f5de46f1a68bdf
    8113f50e779d80f6

### Generate delegation certificate pledge

To honor your pledge, create a _delegation certificate_:

    cardano-cli stake-address delegation-certificate \
    --stake-verification-key-file stake.vkey \
    --cold-verification-key-file cold.vkey \
    --out-file delegation.cert

This creates a delegation certificate which delegates funds from all stake addresses associated with key `stake.vkey` to the pool belonging to cold key `cold.vkey`. If there are many staking keys as pool owners in the first step, we need delegation certificates for all of them.

### Submit the pool certificate and delegation certificate to the blockchain

To submit the `pool registration certificate` and the `delegation certificates` to the blockchain, include them in one or more transactions. We can use one transaction for multiple certificates, the certificates will be applied in order.

### Draft the transaction

    cardano-cli transaction build-raw \
    --tx-in <TxHash>#<TxIx> \
    --tx-out $(cat payment.addr)+0 \
    --invalid-hereafter 0 \
    --fee 0 \
    --out-file tx.draft \
    --certificate-file pool-registration.cert \
    --certificate-file delegation.cert

### Calculate the fees

    cardano-cli transaction calculate-min-fee \
    --tx-body-file tx.draft \
    --tx-in-count 1 \
    --tx-out-count 1 \
    --witness-count 3 \
    --byron-witness-count 0 \
    --mainnet \
    --protocol-params-file protocol.json

For example:

    > 184685

Registering a stake pool requires a deposit. This amount is specified in `protocol.json`. For example, for Shelley Mainnet we have:

"poolDeposit": 500000000

### Calculate the change for --tx-out

All amounts in Lovelace

    expr <UTxO BALANCE> - <poolDeposit> - <TRANSACTION FEE>

### Build the transaction:

    cardano-cli transaction build-raw \
    --tx-in <TxHash>#<TxIx> \
    --tx-out $(cat payment.addr)+<CHANGE IN LOVELACE> \
    --invalid-hereafter <TTL> \
    --fee <TRANSACTION FEE> \
    --out-file tx.raw \
    --certificate-file pool-registration.cert \
    --certificate-file delegation.cert

### Sign the transaction:

    cardano-cli transaction sign \
    --tx-body-file tx.raw \
    --signing-key-file payment.skey \
    --signing-key-file stake.skey \
    --signing-key-file cold.skey \
    --mainnet \
    --out-file tx.signed

### Submit the transaction:

    cardano-cli transaction submit \
    --tx-file tx.signed \
    --mainnet


### Verify that your stake pool registration was successful

Get Pool ID

    cardano-cli stake-pool id --cold-verification-key-file cold.vkey --output-format "hex"

Check for the presence of your poolID in the network ledger state, with:

    cardano-cli query ledger-state --mainnet | grep publicKey | grep <poolId>
